Hey everyone, you'll have a good.
2 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Good morning and here we are going to.
3 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Cover lecture six, basically.
4 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Capacitors and capacities, so.
5 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The application for capacitors, the, the best application is your mobile phone battery.
6 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or your laptop battery, your tablet battery.
7 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So in the, if you are not charging.
8 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The battery will hold energy.
9 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the battery.
10 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In your mobile phone or your laptop, is.
11 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Consisting of capacitors are consisting of capacitors.
12 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we are going to learn how other.
13 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
How is the charging, discharging of your battery or your capacitors?
14 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, and.
15 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And other details so the symbol.
16 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is the symbol for capacitors.
17 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two straight lines, two straight lines.
18 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And two straight lines.
19 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So do not be, it's different from a voltage supply. Voltage supply is this one and the capacitor symbol is.
20 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two, two equals straight lines. So before we go into capacitors, let's.
21 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Let us learn the theory or the underlying principle behind.
22 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capacitors and in general.
23 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Electric flux lines extend from a positively charged body.
24 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To a negatively charged body. So if you have a positive charge, a negative charge.
25 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The electric, this is called electric flux lines. It will.
26 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It will originate or it will start from a positively.
27 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A positive charge towards the negative charge, so that's the arrows.
28 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, so that if we have two positive charges closed together so.
29 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
They will repel in this manner.
30 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, this is the.
31 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Some formulas.
32 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if we have positive charge, so the electric flux line will.
33 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We'll go outs outwards. So if we have a negative charge.
34 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The electric large lines will go inwards towards it.
35 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It was it. So here we have some.
36 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Some.
37 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Formulas, which is A is area, and this is flux and this is electric field.
38 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Density. So I will.
39 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And here we have some electric field is forced newton's perculum.
40 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, so these are some of the basic formulas.
41 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, if we have a capacitor, as I mentioned.
42 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Expressor is the symbol is two equally straight lines closed together.
43 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So what is the capacitors doing? In between there is an air gap.
44 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the capacitor is two, two.
45 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Oh, actually two parallel plates if we draw it into the three D.
46 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two parallel plates and in between.
47 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
There are air gaps. They are just air in between the two plates, the court two conducting plates.
48 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So when we have a capacitor, the electron.
49 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or the current will flow.
50 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And then the electric field.
51 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I will accommodate the positive charge?
52 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We'll accumulate on one of the plates and the negative charge.
53 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We'll accumulate on the other plate because.
54 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is the positive from the.
55 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Voltage sauce, and this is the negative, so the negative charge will accommodate.
56 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At the bottom plate and the positive charges will accumulate at the.
57 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Toplates. So when they're positive and negative?
58 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the electric flux electric flux line will s.
59 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Originate from the positive charge towards the negative charge.
60 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Therefore, the current and still flow.
61 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because of this electric flux line.
62 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In between the two parallel plates. So this means if we have two.
63 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Put three dimensional if I draw it.
64 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we, this is called capacitor, the capacitor and.
65 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So an electric field, the blue arrows is set up between the two peril plates. So capacitons.
66 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's a measure of a capacitor's ability to store it to store charge on its plates?
67 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So that's why you have a mobile phone battery?
68 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or laptop battery.
69 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is the ability of the battery to store?
70 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To Store the charge so that you can use the battery.
71 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A laptop battery or mobile phone battery?
72 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To to use the charge.
73 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For your application. And.
74 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Sorry. So the.
75 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capacitons is given by the symbol C.
76 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capacitor's value is the charge over the votes.
77 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The columns per votes, Q OVERV where Q is.
78 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The charge in columns and V is the voltage.
79 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Between the two plates be in between the two plates. So this formula is.
80 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is given in the appendix in the appendix?
81 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I think you have seen the appendix during your midterm and this is one of the formula.
82 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Given in the appendix for your midterm and it also will also be given.
83 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In the appendix or the formula sheet for the final exam.
84 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So in the 1st quiz return quiz.
85 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Measure the resistance, the resistance, if you still remember is.
86 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Row L are over A.
87 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
That is to measure if we have a resistance.
88 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A resistor in the laboratory, so we want to know how many or how many oms.
89 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we, it depends on the material.
90 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the length, and the cross functional area. So similarly.
91 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or if we have two parallel plates?
92 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
If we have two plates, we want to know what is the strength of the capacitant's value.
93 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is it, if we have a small.
94 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Small plates or if we have.
95 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A larger, larger place what will be the relationship?
96 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In order to produce the capacity, the capacitance value.
97 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we can see that, to measure.
98 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capacitance, it depends on the.
99 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Exelong is a primitivity and it is.
100 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Fix and it is, four, five.
101 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Times ten to the minus seven, it is fixed provided in the appendix of formula sheet.
102 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the area is, this area?
103 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The area of the plate?
104 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In this area and the D is the.
105 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The separation, the gaps between.
106 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The between the two parallel plates, between the two parallel plates.
107 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So actually the Epsilon is a general term.
108 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Absolon is always equal to absolute north.
109 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Excellent arm, and excellent arm is always.
110 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A fixed at fixed number four by times.
111 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'm sorry I I confused with a new note.
112 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I will say it's not 4.7 it is eight point.
113 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Eight five times.
114 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At time to the minus twelve, but don't worry, these values.
115 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Are provided in the appendix.
116 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And this absternal RR means a relative.
117 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
R means are relative. This means.
118 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This excellent out depends on the material.
119 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Perhaps maybe.
120 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A glass, perhaps.
121 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What the crystal or personin, so each different material will have.
122 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A different, different accident R value. So this will also provide this.
123 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Each, there is some table of different materials.
124 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, we'll, they will provide, they will have a different excellent R value, so you also do not need to.
125 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Memorize? So excellent R will be provided usually provided in the question.
126 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So as an example, if we have.
127 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is our, this is our capacitors.
128 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And let's say the area is air.
129 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the gaps is D And we found that.
130 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The faster is five microphone.
131 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So what happened if we have.
132 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The area instead of A.
133 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's 3A3 times, three times larger?
134 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But the, the gap between the two.
135 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Let's are still, still the same.
136 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So how can we, what do you think will be the the new value of the capacits?
137 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Three times. So instead, because here the formula is.
138 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
C equals to excellent not excellent R A.
139 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Divided by D So since the area is.
140 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A3A, therefore multiply by three.
141 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
There is a denumerator, so this will be 15.
142 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Microforups, microforups.
143 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Sorry. Okay.
144 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And so we can, we can do a few more examples. E.g., this one, if this is.
145 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
An area and then the gap is D, but what happened if.
146 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The same area but the gap is increased to two D.
147 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What will, what do you think will be the new seat?
148 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Cause now D becomes two D.
149 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So overall, this will become 0.1.
150 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Divided by two becomes zero point and zero five microfiles.
151 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And for part C in this example.
152 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Everything is the same, area is the same.
153 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The gap is the same but now we change the material.
154 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the material is excellent not, an excellent arm. The material is excellent arm.
155 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this one, this one, but.
156 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is the gap is in between its air, but in this one.
157 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But the gap is in the gap is not there, but.
158 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Some paraphine paper and paraphine paper has.
159 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Absent R of 2.5. But before that, I would like to ask you.
160 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What do you think is the excellent R for ann?
161 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
If this just don't need to memorize, but do you do you know?
162 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yes, it's one. Okay, so excellent R is one for air because that's the.
163 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Reference or visit and therefore.
164 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Now it's NO more air, it's for the fine paper.
165 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this, this becomes instead of 1 h.
166 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It becomes 2.5 excellent R.
167 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Before I think you agree that.
168 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The value of C is when.
169 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
20 multiplied by 2.5.
170 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Larger larger by 20 multiply by 2.5 and you can get S.
171 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For 50, right? 5050 microphones.
172 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if, and in the last example.
173 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And here we can see the area is.
174 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Increased by four times and the gap is.
175 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Decrease by one over eight.
176 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So you can substitute.
177 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You can do the calculations. Now the area is four times.
178 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And this D becomes one over eight.
179 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So overall, it will become.
180 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Four, I'm four divided by one over eight.
181 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, and one more, I forgot, we forgot the material is NO more air. The material is my car, which is.
182 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A five, so that means the excellent R.
183 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is five times now because absent out of air.
184 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's one, so five times.
185 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this means five is there five times.
186 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A four is there, but since four divided by one over each is equivalent to.
187 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Four multiply by eight, so overall.
188 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You will get, hundred 60 times.
189 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Hundred 60 times more than the previous.
190 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Previous which is 160 times 1000 of the previous.
191 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Compared to the previousants from the previous. So this is how you measure.
192 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
How you measure the strength of, the presidents. But as because the formula.
193 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is here, you can see if it is.
194 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
On the numerator, it means.
195 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Five times, area means the area is increased, the capacitance is increased.
196 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The material is different from air?
197 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The Presidents is increased. It's the the spacing is increased?
198 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capacit will be decreased.
199 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because this is the mathematics, the log the logics from the mathematical.
200 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The mathematical formula of the, the presidents.
201 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, I will go to, direct.
202 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And here you can see the materials.
203 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is air? Material is air, but if we insert.
204 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Some material usually.
205 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This material, you, you cannot insert a conductor.
206 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Cause we want a material that is.
207 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Similar to air, and this material, this directory. Directory is the opposite.
208 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Dynatric is the opposite of a conductor.
209 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So you, you cannot insert copper because, this is a conductor.
210 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Copper is a conductor, anything that's the electric such as air.
211 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A plastic, a paper.
212 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Glass. This is directly, so if we.
213 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Insert, instead of air.
214 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You can put air in between or you can put any materials such as micro.
215 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Any dialectric material, so.
216 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if you put the electric the effects of the electric.
217 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It will make it aligned, ok? It will make it.
218 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The tier is positive charges, so the negative will be attracted.
219 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Do the positive and the positive will be aligned?
220 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And attracted to the negative charges. So when we have that.
221 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The charge, the capacitance, that's why the capacity's value is larger.
222 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When we input, we put.
223 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Other than air such as, because air is this one.
224 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And if we put the electric materials such as micah or.
225 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Paraphine paper, the effect of the capacit's.
226 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is higher. The presence is higher due to this.
227 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the charge is higher when the electric is present. The electric is present.
228 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So here you can see, the.
229 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Capacitors in the lab. So usually it is too, the symbol is too.
230 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Equally lang, lines.
231 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But also some books do this symbol, so they are both.
232 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Capacitors, if the capacitors.
233 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A variables is measured in.
234 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
F A R A D, so if we have a variable capacitor that you can.
235 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Change, change so the symbol is.
236 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Like this there is a arrow arrow and.
237 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So you as a because of.
238 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The formula, the areas, right? The areas.
239 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is excellent area over.
240 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Gap gap distance so the area.
241 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is higher, the area is bigger so we we expect a higher value of capacity, so here is a small.
242 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A smaller, smaller capacitions, one microfarou.
243 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And here is the large capacitance.
244 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
1000 microforms.
245 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, so the size of the capacitor increases with the capacitor's value.
246 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So in the lab, and there are two types of, the presidents. The 1st one, this type is called.
247 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Electrolytic type of question.
248 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This this type is called film.
249 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The type of capacitor, and this the last part C is called the type of capacitors.
250 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So you can observe in the laboratories the.
251 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And basically, the, the larger.
252 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capacitor's size, the higher the capacitor's value.
253 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But, one way to increase the questions is to sometimes companies.
254 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You know is using a rolling.
255 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or they Because they can do stacking?
256 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And they will insert some, something and it's called in session.
257 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Method, this is stacking method, and this is rolling method to increase.
258 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The value of capacits, ok? So have, do you have a Tesla account?
259 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Teslaka? No, NO. Okay, so Teslaka.
260 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The piece of battery type of car, right? So that battery.
261 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's the capacity and the it's very big because it needs to store the store the you want to drive how long is the Tesla last?
262 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
500 km, so it's fully charged, so you can.
263 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Five 500 km and, bigger.
264 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The, the application.
265 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And that's why it is sometimes it's called a super capacitor.
266 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This means the one that is in the.
267 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Tesla casts, they have a very big battery.
268 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if you work in Tesla.
269 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You want to, a battery engineer?
270 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Wants to, because if you create bigger, bigger battery, the car will be too heavy, so you want to.
271 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Maximize the s the storage but try not to increase the size of the battery so that is another research or another field is a better electrical or battery engineer.
272 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For electric vehicle for electric vehicle.
273 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And so the bigger the battery and we have super capacitor, you can you you they will call it as a super capacitor.
274 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So capacitors can be placed in series and parallel?
275 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So in, if we want to increase the levels of capacitions.
276 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We place them in peril if you want to.
277 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Decrease the levels of overall the levels of capacitors we place them in series.
278 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, here cause in the substation.
279 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
They were they were substation and so forth.
280 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
They need to store the electricity.
281 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Accumulation so we have a big see this is as tall as, people, as tall as a human.
282 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Are all the capacity banks to store.
283 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The electricities before to for storage before being sent to.
284 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Other places. So this capacitor bank, so that's why it's super capacitors, super capacitors.
285 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But your battery and your laptop is just small?
286 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Small type of capacitors. So series and pedal.
287 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if we have capacitors in parallel.
288 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Actually, the total capacitor is added.
289 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So just capesters in parallel.
290 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's just adding all the Q one plus.
291 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The value of Q one plus the value of Q two plus the value of Q three, you will get a Q total.
292 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Q total as a whole, and if you connect the capacitors in series.
293 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You will, it's not the adding.
294 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
That this means Q total.
295 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Equals to Q1Q total equals to Q two and.
296 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Q total is equals to Q three.
297 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Alright, and.
298 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, this.
299 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This Two is in parallel? The blue.
300 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The blue and the pink, they are in parallel because they are nothing in between, so and.
301 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Let me change the color. So this, the green.
302 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
All of them are imperal so if.
303 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We know the voltage is, therefore.
304 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This also must be E?
305 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The potential is is E and.
306 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The potential or the voltage must also be it.
307 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is also a good revision coming from our midterm exam.
308 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Towards the next quiz and also the final exam. You must.
309 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Observe that.
310 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Branches in perils, have the same voltage, have the same voltage.
311 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, so C total.
312 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Uhh, so a C total is C one.
313 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Plus C two plus C three. So that if they are in parallel.
314 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But on the other hand, if they are in series.
315 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The formula is one over C total?
316 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's equals to one over C one plus one over C two.
317 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Plus one over C three. So these are the.
318 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two formulas, one in series, sorry, one in parallel and.
319 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Capacitors in cities. As an example, if we have, the circuit on the left.
320 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we see that they are in cities and we use the formula.
321 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
One over C total equals to one over C one plus one over C two plus one over C three.
322 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we can rearrange this to get back to the city.
323 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, so eight micro products, so you can see.
324 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
250 and ten, but the the total is smaller, smaller.
325 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Smaller than because this is the formula use.
326 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if we have three capacitors in parallel.
327 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
861200.
328 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we can simply use and C total is.
329 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
C one plus C two and plus C three. So they reproduce.
330 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A sea total of 2060 microphones. So this is larger.
331 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Larger than the individual capacitors, but when you have in series.
332 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The total is smaller than the individual capacitors.
333 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, and.
334 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Here we have, everything is opposite to resistance.
335 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, so because it's resistors, if you remember they are when you have in series.
336 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You add them, right? When you have, in series.
337 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The total resistors will be added. So, but here the capacitors when they are.
338 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In series, it is the opposite it's like resistors in parallel. And similarly when resistors are in parallel.
339 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When they are in federal, you, you also.
340 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
If you still remember R one of over Rt is one over R one.
341 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The Plus one over to.
342 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Plus one over at three. So any and and and.
343 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So in essence capacitor's formula.
344 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's the opposite to the resistance formula in series and in parallel. So if we have.
345 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
If you have the circuit on the left, so we know that.
346 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
He's too, in.
347 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Parallel alright? So these two are in parallel.
348 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And so therefore.
349 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We want.
350 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So it's, so when when they are in parallel.
351 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We add the root capacitors, right? Because it's the opposite, so at the end we can just draw.
352 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the summary summary circuits.
353 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Off, and these two.
354 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Are these two as a resultant is just six, right? If you agree?
355 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because they are imperal, and this is three.
356 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is three, and this is 120 votes.
357 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is three microphorats and.
358 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Six microforts. So at down.
359 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's just like a voltage divider. Again, it's a revision.
360 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
From the midterm and also for future, so just redraw it like this if you want to make.
361 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Visually more clear, so this is 120 v.
362 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And if you want to make it clearer, if you want V one.
363 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or if you want me too.
364 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You can use the voltage divider theory and I hope.
365 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is a well verse to you by now the voltage divided theory is.
366 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And so we want.
367 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, here is three. Let me write here three and here is six.
368 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So here it's six and so the voltage.
369 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, ok, and we want is.
370 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Six over, three plus six multiplied by 01:20. So it is.
371 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Are the opposite to the.
372 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To the resistors, ok, to the registers, so it's all everything is opposite.
373 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And here we have the 2nd, the 2nd.
374 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The 2nd circuits, so here.
375 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We can So V two.
376 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Equals, 2V3.
377 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Which is V total V total and.
378 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
V two is, 120.
379 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The three over three plus six?
380 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Three over three plus six divided by 01:20.
381 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So it's the opposite of the.
382 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Uhh S resistors, the opposite of the resistors.
383 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the, now it's the, the more interesting part is the.
384 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Capacity in steady states. So because when you have your laptop.
385 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or your tesla cars or your.
386 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Your mobile phone, you are going to charge.
387 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Charge your battery, right? Charge the battery in your mobile phone.
388 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, so now, when it is.
389 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Start from nothing, start from zero. So when you start to charge.
390 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When you start to charge, ok?
391 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It is, a short circuit.
392 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So at this T zero, when you start to charge your battery.
393 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A mobile phone battery it is the capacitor acts like a short circuit.
394 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, so this is capacitor, this is a capacitor.
395 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So cause now you will charge your capacitor X as a short circuit. So after a certain while, a long time.
396 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, long long after a certain time, after a certain time.
397 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Fully charged, the capacitor will.
398 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A act like an open circuit.
399 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To store, to store the energy. So just remember.
400 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For a capacitor, when it is D equals to zero, when you start charging, when the switch is closed.
401 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It will act as opposite?
402 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So after a long while, after is fully charged.
403 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This means it will act.
404 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
As a short as open circuit. So S C.
405 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A short circuit in the beginning and opened circuits.
406 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At the, at the end. So this means.
407 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When it is fully charged?
408 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This will, this capacitance.
409 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Will look like an open circuit. So therefore, there is like a.
410 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
That is like a curve or the voltage.
411 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
See the voltage across the capacitor.
412 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This means when it is zero, when it is a zero time?
413 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The voltage is zero, and it is understandable and logical because.
414 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And when time is zero, it is.
415 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
An open circuit, so if we measure.
416 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The voltage, a voltage seat.
417 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
There is NO potential difference, so the voltage is zero.
418 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But as time goes as you charge, so the voltage across sea.
419 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Increases, increases until.
420 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The fully charged and this.
421 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's visit, because.
422 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Then it is fully charged, it becomes an open circuit, so the voltage.
423 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In an open circuit, the voltage.
424 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What is VC. And similarly.
425 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current, so now this is voltage.
426 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I hope I explained because this is very important.
427 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the when the voltage is zero.
428 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Which is, I will draw it here, which is.
429 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And when it acts like an open circuit?
430 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And this is maximum, it acts like an.
431 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Sorry, it acts a short circuit, and this is open circuit.
432 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So when it is open circuit, sorry, the short circuit.
433 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current, the current.
434 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is flowing, right? The current is flowing so the current is maximum.
435 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But when it is.
436 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Become, open circuit.
437 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Therefore, NO current will flow.
438 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, so I hope this is the initial concept.
439 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This means for a capacitor.
440 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When you start at T equals to zero, it acts like a short circuit.
441 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When you are fully charged, the capacitor.
442 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Appears like an open circuit. So logically.
443 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When it is, a short circup?
444 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The voltage must be zero in between.
445 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Then it increases, it becomes an open circuit than the voltage is busy.
446 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And on the other hand, voltage and current is.
447 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Complimentary, this means when it is short circuit, current will flow, this means current is maximum.
448 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But as we.
449 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
As we go charging and so forth.
450 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
As this turns into a open circuit, the current is.
451 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Zero. The current is approaching zero. So I hope.
452 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Are you.
453 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is the fundamental concept of a capacitor charging.
454 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Charging and later we will learn discharging.
455 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Discharging. Any questions so far?
456 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Any questions? So I hope never mind.
457 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We will see one good example here, ok?
458 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So when completely charged, the capacitor.
459 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's like an open circuit. So F in your mind at T equals to zero.
460 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capestor is a short circuit wire, but when you charge it.
461 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
From the voltage supply, the capacitor holds energy.
462 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And now the capacitor appear like an.
463 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Open circuit and.
464 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So when it is a open circuit, it appears as.
465 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, of course, open circuit. When it is fully charged, this is open circuit. So we can.
466 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Now, say that, so if I redraw this, so when this is an open circuit.
467 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So actually this line is like.
468 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And irrelevant because NO current, NO current withflow through this.
469 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
All the current towards here. So then I redraw it in this manner, so 24 votes, four ombs here and eight omps.
470 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And VC is looking.
471 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At here. So we see it's looking at here and.
472 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I hope you sty you can relate from the previous knowledge that this is a voltage divider.
473 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we see a voltage across capacitor voltage divider means it's.
474 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Eight over twelve multiply by 24 votes, so 16 votes. Okay.
475 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Sixteens votes. Yes.
476 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Oh, so when the.
477 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When we talk about yeah yes.
478 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
That one is when it is capacity as not.
479 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Analyzing as a fully charged just like a.
480 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two capacities like that. But when we talk about capacity as fully charged, we.
481 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We have to analyze it as a becoming an op.
482 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And becoming an open circuit, but actually it's not.
483 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Totally the work gets.
484 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because in this previous previous one.
485 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It is analyzing a capacitor.
486 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
There there is NO resistance at all, right? There's NO resistance, but here.
487 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It is, when the or fully charged, this is.
488 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Like an open secret, so we are analyzing in terms of resistance.
489 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For the rule? Yes.
490 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yes yes.
491 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, this for the capacity rule, you mean?
492 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Both is divide the rule?
493 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the opposite register is current divider.
494 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current divider rule look at the opposite branch. No, NO.
495 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yes, so that's why I, this.
496 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Previous slide, this one, yeah? Previous slide. So this.
497 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Previous slides and it's a good question. This.
498 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is related to capacitors only.
499 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I mean we are not analyzing, there are NO resistors here?
500 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
There are NO, all our capacitors, so it's like a standalone analysis.
501 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Stand alone, we are not talking about it's fully charged or not. So if we have just capacity.
502 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Capacitors like standalone analysis, if these two capacity like this, the rule is opposite.
503 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, but now we.
504 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We are, we are normal.
505 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Analyzing as a standalone, now the capacitor is charged fully charged. So it now it is back to the resistance.
506 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, yes. So in terms of exam.
507 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
More on, a hundred percent is.
508 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
From this side, not from, I will not ask.
509 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
From the standalone capacity, so just from now onwards, it's more important from from this side from this site. Charging and discharging charging.
510 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And discharge. So.
511 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, but if you want to find the.
512 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Cause the relationship between Q.
513 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And I see is equals to QV, if you want.
514 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So usually that is the final answer, but if the question further said what is the value?
515 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But During this time, what is the value of charge?
516 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So Q is CB and C is, 20.
517 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So Q is CBC is 20 microforax.
518 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And of course we if we see during this fully charged.
519 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A V is 16 votes. And of course you can use.
520 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You can get your answers. So that is put in your, the 1st important principle.
521 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Capacity at T equals to zero, it is.
522 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Acting like a short circuit wire?
523 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But as it's fully charged, imagine like mobile phone battery when it's fully charged.
524 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The capacitor looks like an open circuit.
525 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So that is, the, the 1st important principle.
526 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For capacitors. So we, when we fully charged sometimes you you can also the, the naming is called capacitor in steady states.
527 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This mean it's already steady that you cannot charge anymore. It's steady steady state.
528 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So in this situation, it's also interesting.
529 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So when is this like long time steady state?
530 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You can see here there are two capacitors. This circuit has two capacitors.
531 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, the theory is, says that.
532 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When it is long time after steady State of fully charge?
533 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It acts, it looks like an open circuit?
534 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, it looks like an open circuit, so I I will draw it, I will.
535 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So what happened when, what happened to the current at this moment?
536 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So here, at this junction.
537 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This that is it's supposed to be split, right?
538 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But here there is nothing, so, there, there is NO current flowing here.
539 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And it will go through here. So this.
540 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At this junction, it's supposed to split, but you can see it is an open circuit.
541 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At the moment, so this will be.
542 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Nothing. And actually, when it is nothing.
543 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is irrelevant, right?
544 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is, it's like NO NO current flows, nothing. So at the end.
545 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When it is fully charged or steady state?
546 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We only have a situation.
547 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Of this one and this one.
548 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is the two oms and the seven oms.
549 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, 72 votes. And this is.
550 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
No more connected. So when we asked.
551 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When we asked to find what is VC one?
552 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So VC one is, this is nothing, I mean VC one is.
553 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
From here to here, and it's also from here to here is the same because.
554 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yes, this, this one is looking in this.
555 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In this and when when you look here you are looking at.
556 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This one, so BC one is this one.
557 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And we see two, so now I I erase this.
558 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It is this. So VC two is looking.
559 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, VC two is looking.
560 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In here, but here is.
561 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Coming nothing, so I will.
562 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'll redraw it. So actually the VC two.
563 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's, it's looking like this cost.
564 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Here is becoming like not so VC two can be brought.
565 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I like, so if you see irrelevant, so I I just draw the seven oms here.
566 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Suppose VC two is here, right? VC two is here, but why not?
567 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'll make it busy to, here because there's nothing, so it's like.
568 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'm looking at here.
569 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this one is I'm looking in this.
570 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In this banner and VC two, actually it's looking here but.
571 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Extend it, so VC two is here.
572 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So in other words, so if I redraw it.
573 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I know that you you can, some of you, most of you will be able to to.
574 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To discover already but I like to.
575 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Show it in clarity. So this, this one.
576 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, two, two is here, seven is here.
577 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So it's like a voltage a divider theory.
578 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if you want, this is VC one.
579 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And this is a visitude.
580 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And again, you use your voltage divided theory which states.
581 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
That VC One is two over 9th.
582 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two overnights are multiplied by 72.
583 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
VC two VC two is seven over 9th multiply over 72.
584 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is a capacitor in steady state or fully charged, fully charged.
585 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Seems that there is NO quiz.
586 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
My script, I don't know why, maybe I will give free marks or.
587 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I, I said it but.
588 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I didn't see where is the quiz? Let me check.
589 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The real, the real want, whether it is here.
590 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Oh uh.
591 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
See the D here, today this is 19 May, maybe.
592 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I forgot to save as a new.
593 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Oh, there is a quiz, but we already went through.
594 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, the 1st question will be free marks, I think.
595 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So let's continue with, where, where we stop.
596 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I already I already.
597 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Went through this, this.
598 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
With you just now, and before that, we have NO questions at all.
599 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Only one question, which is this one.
600 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, so, so for the benefit.
601 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For the benefit, so it was my.
602 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A mistake. I didn't click the the right.
603 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I get the quiz, so this means I will show the answer.
604 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And after, after we click the quiz, you will be.
605 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the quiz will ask you.
606 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And what is VC? And what is VC?
607 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You use the voltage divider rule?
608 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is what is VC. Okay I The 1st one I give you the answer.
609 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So because I missed the quiz and now I will click.
610 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
If you see the lectures folder, 2024.
611 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In class quiz lecture six because today is lecture six on Wednesday.
612 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I will, I will write it to be.
613 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A Wednesday, the 22 of May.
614 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
20 2024. So I will.
615 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'm safe, 2024 here because.
616 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I need to use for tomorrow's batch as well.
617 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So 20 2048.
618 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Safe S 2024B for.
619 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Tomorrow's tomorrow's batch, tomorrow's students.
620 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And just save extra extra one more for next year, for next year?
621 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I can use for next year's batch, ok? So this.
622 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is the C, and.
623 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the question is, what is.
624 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
VC. What is VC?
625 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And I think you know this is a voltage divider room.
626 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, so you can continue.
627 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For 200 s, what is VC?
628 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So what is this VC?
629 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I can just have a look with the progress or very good.
630 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
51 students or 50 students are in this room.
631 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At the moment, 50 students.
632 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It was quite a good number of students, so I think you you are able to do the answers I will reveal.
633 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is the 1st question, ok?
634 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I think you, you know the answers.
635 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And 2nd, what is.
636 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
VC one, and what is VC two?
637 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So what is VC one and what is VC two?
638 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So which from the previous question, we have.
639 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Another, so I just, just give a chance.
640 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So students can enter the previous question 1st.
641 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Before we start, what is BC one and what is BC two?
642 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I think, 75 s is the 1st time.
643 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
50 s and let me see how many students have.
644 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I have, 70 students, 69, so.
645 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Just a little bit more before we continue.
646 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To what is V VC one and what is VC two.
647 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
1918, six.
648 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
6543 three.
649 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two one ok then.
650 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Let's continue with, what is VC one?
651 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay. So what is BC one?
652 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You will be, you will select the answer once we see one.
653 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So here is VC one, VC one.
654 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This voltage divided theory, the VC one.
655 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay. Okay.
656 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the next one is, what is.
657 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
VC two, let me wait for one.
658 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, you see one is two over.
659 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two over nine multiply by 72.
660 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay. And the next question.
661 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is what is VC two, so I'll just click.
662 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Do one more, the next click for after this version finish finishes.
663 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, I think it's almost finished. So let's go to the next question.
664 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the next question what is VC two?
665 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And what is VC two?
666 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So while waiting, just to emphasize again?
667 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A steady statements the capacitor is.
668 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Wholly charged after a certain while. So in the beginning.
669 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In the beginning, so capacitor.
670 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In the beginning, the capacitor looks like a short circuit wire.
671 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
As it is charging and fully charged.
672 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
After a certain time, the capacitor will look.
673 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Like, open circuit.
674 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Open 2nd, but still we look like an open 2nd, so if we draw.
675 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This, this means the voltage.
676 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the time, the voltage is zero because.
677 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's a short circuit wire and the voltage.
678 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's busy after us some time.
679 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the current, the current is.
680 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Maximum, because it's a short circuit the current timeflow.
681 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But as it changes the current will approach zero.
682 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the pink is the current and the green is the voltage.
683 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
VC two or VC VC two, ok?
684 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we see two and so an ideally capacitor does not dissipate any of the energies applied to it.
685 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So it stores the energy in the form of electric field between the conducting surfaces.
686 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So here is, as I mentioned just now, this is the voltage.
687 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this, this is the.
688 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The voltage of the paster it starts from zero because.
689 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's like a short circuit wire and it will.
690 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At the steady state, it will approach.
691 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
E And Karen.
692 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current is voltage over resistance.
693 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is the current, so for a short circuit wire.
694 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Here and here it's a open circuit.
695 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the current flows, the maximum, and then.
696 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It will approach zero. When it is open NO current.
697 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Fully open circuit NO current will flow.
698 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So since one site is.
699 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Voltage and the one side is current.
700 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So power is voltage multiplied by current, so each.
701 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This maybe let's say ten, this is zero, so the resultant is zero.
702 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This point multiply by this point.
703 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You got this. E.g., this.
704 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At this point multiply by this point.
705 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We get this. At this point multiply by this point we get this.
706 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
These two points are same and we got this. So this, this is.
707 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The curves of the voltage?
708 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Of the current and the curve for the power.
709 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Get the curve for the power as well, ok?
710 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The energy stocked is represented by the shadowed area under the power.
711 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the shaded area, under the power curve is the energy.
712 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Cause, a power is energy.
713 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Over time, so the energy is power.
714 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Multiply by time. So that is the relationship between voltage, current power and energy.
715 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So with that, I would take 5 min breaks.
716 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We'll take 5 min breaks and after that we will continue with our capacitors.
717 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
More details about the capacitors, ok? So.
718 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
See you after 5 min.